# CS32 Arcade - Bunny Hop

# Description
Our game takes inspiration from the classic arcade game Frogger and a similar modernized version called Crossy Road. Our take on these games follows a new avatar in the form of a Bunny. The user can choose from a selection of three bunnies, being black, brown and white. The user has to control the bunny using simple left, right, upward, and downward movements with the arrow keys and cross environments like roads and water while avoiding obstacles like vehicles which may move at different speeds. As the player makes it to the top of the screen, their score will increase by 100 and they will be sent back to the bottom of the screen where the obstacles will have gained speed and progressively make traversing more challenging. Once a player is hit by a car or lands in the water they will lose a life and be brought back to the bottom of the screen. Once the players loses 3 lives they will lose and have to restart back with a score of 0. We also added ways for players to gain bonus points in the form of carrots that the user can pick up on their way to the top of the screen. By picking up a carrot the player can gain 20 points. There will be 3 carrots in random locations each new screen the player makes it to. We also added a small 5% chance that a carrot can be a golden carrot, where the player will gain a whopping 250 points, which gives the incentive for players to track down these carrots but adds a higher risk factor when traversing.

# Main:
The main.cpp creates the window with a 500 x 500 frame. It then proceeds to call all the important functions to run our game. First it sets the display, then it tracks keyboard input for character selection and character movement. It starts the timer, initializes player, the cars, the logs and the carrots on the screen. It then runs the glut main loop. This main loop will continue running our game until the player loses and/or presses the 'Esc' key.

# Game_h:
Our Game header file creates the structs for all the core objects in the game. For instance we have structs like Player which holds variables for its x and y position, how many lives they have, what there score is, what there character movement speed is. We also track similar variables for our log objects, car objects, and carrot objects. There is also an enum for the BunnyColor which helps us track which color the user has selected for their bunny. Lastly, there is also a number of helper functions that we will mention in our Game_cpp section.

# Game_cpp:
Our Game cpp file hold all the important functions that will run our game. These functions that are written out in Game.cpp will be called from our main.cpp when initalizing the game. For instance we have functions like initializePlayer or initalizeCarrots which build the positions of these objects. We have a load textures function which will take all of the textures from our Sprites folder and generate them into textureID's. We have many draw functions like drawCars or drawLogs which properly attach textures to the created objects on the screen. We have a function called timer which runs our game in 60fps. Most importantly the display function will carry out core processes and other smaller functions like the drawFunctions and will proceed to update the cars and logs movement along with checking for collisions with the character object. If a player is within the same range of a car object it will detect as a collision and the player will lose a life sending them back to the bottom. If the player walks anywhere in the water zone without being on a log it will also detect a collision. If a player jumps onto a log it will track their x position and center them on the square they are closest to. Once a player is on a log the object will being updated alongside the log making it seem like the player is moving along with it. Lastly, the keyboard and special keys function track the keyboard inputs like the 1, 2 or 3 for character selection and the arrow keys, and the space bar and escape keys.

# Run Game and Controls:
First make sure you are running from the src directory. To build the game run the command "make". Once the game is built, to start the game, run the command "make run_game". To choose the bunny character model press a number 1, 2 or 3 on your keyboard. To control the character movement use the arrow keys to move up, down, left and right. Once the game is over, simply press the space bar to replay or the Escape key on your keyboard to close the window, thus exiting the game.